I had many ambitions as a child, ranging from being a doctor to a policeman, but
all my ambitions shared a common goal, which was to build a better, safer, and
more efficient world. I tried many different things and revised my ambitions as
I grew up. By God’s grace, I am fortunate to have been given a chance to
participate in professional work and research experiences in the field of
computer sciences, where I discovered the many things that computer science can
achieve. It was then when I realized my true calling - to change the world for
the better, to create an efficient and safe environment for everyone with the
help of computer science. I aspire to relieve humans from hazardous jobs and
make everyone’s life more enjoyable and efficient with artificial intelligence
and robotics application.

As I believe that learning is an active process and should not be restricted to
just the classroom, I eagerly signed up for an undergraduate research under the
Computer Science Department whereby I examined the different ways of
incorporating machine learning methodologies into the nonintrusive load
monitoring (NILM) process for energy disaggregation. My main contribution to
this project was the development of two data pre-processing tools which reduced
the time and memory consumption. As I continued to develop the
project, I successfully delivered a high accuracy ResNet (Residual Networks)
based semi-supervised learning model after experimenting with other neural
network architectures such as LSTM (Long short-term memory) and DAE (Denoising
Autoencoder).

Aside from my experiences in research, I had an exciting internship working as a
big data engineering intern at Keysight Technologies during the summer of 2019.
My first task was to build a big data analytics system to centralize data coming
from multiple applications. I was also given more opportunities to work on
several other projects that eventually helped to streamline sophisticated work
processes and improved work efficiency for the department. For instance, I built
and trained two artificial neural network models (Autoencoder and XGBOD) for
data pattern recognition and anomaly detection with 97% accuracy, which
ultimately replaced the time taxing manual testing performed by the engineers.
The following semester, I spent my time doing a co-operative education with
Intel as an IoT software engineering intern. My responsibility focused on two
parallel projects where the first one was to develop a contextual AI chatbot.
The most exciting yet challenging part is the chatbot conversation flow design
with Natural Language Processing (NLP) tools, which upgraded the scripted
chatbot to an artificially intelligent chatbot. Upon the successful completion
of my first chatbot, I was then tasked to automated two legacy debugging tools
and develop multiple APIs for two other chatbot models.
